# The ALX Project: Log Parsing
-----------

This project aims to develop a Python script that parses log files, 
extracts useful information, and generates a report based on the extracted data.

## Project Description :computer:

In this project, a Python script is created that can parse log files generated by various services 
and extract relevant information. The log files contain entries in the following format:


```
<IP Address> - [<date>] "GET /path/to/resource HTTP/1.1" <status code> <file size>

```

__The objective is to extract the following information from the log entries__:

- `IP Address`: The IP address of the client making the request.
- `Date`: The date and time when the request was made.
- `HTTP Method`: The HTTP method used in the request (e.g., GET, POST, etc.).
- `Path`: The path to the requested resource.
- `Status Code`: The HTTP status code returned by the server.
- `File Size`: The size of the requested resource.
- `Python`: The script is written in Python, so Python installed on your system.


The script should be able to process large log files efficiently 
and generate a report summarizing the log data. 
The report should include information such as the total number of requests, 
the number of requests per IP address, the most requested resource, 
and the number of requests per HTTP status code.


## Project Task :briefcase: :heavy_check_mark:

The script reads input from stdin line by line, following a specific format. 
It then computes metrics and prints statistics after every 10 lines 
or when interrupted by the user (`CTRL + C`). The required input format is:

```

<IP Address> - [<date>] "GET /projects/260 HTTP/1.1" <status code> <file size>

```

__Lines that do not match this format are skipped.__

__Statistics to be Computed__

1) `Total File Size`: Sum of all <file size> encountered in the input.
2) `Number of Lines by Status Code`: Count of lines for each status code 
(__200__, __301__, __400__, __401__, __403__, __404__, __405__, __500__).

```

192.168.1.1 - [2023-10-17 14:30:00] "GET /projects/260 HTTP/1.1" 200 1024
192.168.1.2 - [2023-10-17 14:35:00] "GET /projects/261 HTTP/1.1" 404 512
192.168.1.3 - [2023-10-17 14:40:00] "POST /projects/262 HTTP/1.1" 500 2048

```

In the task, the total file size is __3584__ (__1024 + 512 + 2048__). 
There is 1 line with status code `200`, 
1 line with status code `404`, 
and 1 line with status code `500`.
